---- Introduction ----

detex-compress is a fast texture compression utility that makes use of the
detex library. As opposed to texgenpack, which uses a general and versatile
but slow compression method, detex-compress uses relatively fast compression
algorithms specifically optimized for a texture compression format. In the
current version, BC1 (S3TC), BC1A (RGBA_S3TC), BC2, BC3, RGTC1 (BC4_UNORM),
RGTC2 (BC5_UNORM), SIGNED_RGTC1 (BC4_SNORM) and SIGNED_RGTC2 (BC5_SNORM)
compression are supported. The utility is multi-threaded and can compress a
1024x1024 BC1 texture within about 10 seconds with good quality.

The program makes uses of detex (https://github.com/hglm/detex) and
DataSetTurbo (https://github.com/hglm/DataSetTurbo).

It is the intention that support for more compression formats will added in
the future.

---- Compilation and installation ----

To compile, detex and DataSetTurbo are required. Running 'make' will compile
the main program detex-compress and running 'sudo make install' will install
it into the directory defined in Makefile.conf (/usr/bin by default).

As an example, the following commands can be used to install DataSetTurbo,
detex and compile and install the compression utility.

	git clone https://github.com/hglm/DataSetTurbo.git
	cd DataSetTurbo
	make
	sudo make install
	cd ..
	git clone https://github.com/hglm/detex.git
	cd detex
	make
	sudo make install
	cd ..
	cd detex-compress
	make
	sudo make install

---- Usage ----

Run detex-compress without arguments for a list of all available options.

The --tries option sets the number of tries that will be performed to compress
each 4x4 pixel block. The default is one. A higher number of tries results in
better quality at the expense of running time.

The --modal option causes a compression try to be performed for each mode
supported by the compression format. The non-modal option disables modal
operation. Since BC1/S3TC has two modes, modal operation will double the amount
of tries. Modal operation can increase quality and improves worst-case quality
by make sure each compression mode is sufficiently explored. For all currently
supported formats, modal operation is the default.

The --modes can be used to limit compressed blocks to a specified set of modes.
The argument is a string of digits. For example, "--modes 01" will limit
compression to modes 0 and 1 of the compressed output format. See the modes
section below for details.

Example command lines:

	detex-compress --format BC1 texture.png texture.dds
	detex-compress --format BC1 --non-modal texture.png texture.ktx
	detex-compress --format BC1 --tries 4 texture.png texture.ktx
	detex-compress --decompress texture.ktx texture-decompressed.ktx

---- Compressed block modes ----

The following is a table with compressed block modes for each compressed
format.

Format	Mode

BC1	
	0	Two base colors, two intermediate colors derived by
		weightings of 1/3 and 2/3.
	1	Two base colors, one intermediate color derived by
		weighting of 1/2, and the fourth color is black.

BC1A	
	0	Two opaque base colors, two opaque intermediate colors derived
		by weightings of 1/3 and 2/3.
	1	Two opaque base colors, one opaque intermediate color derived
		by weighting of 1/2. The fourth color is fully transparent with
		component values of zero.

BC2	
	0	The only allowed mode, with colors corresponding to BC1 mode 0.

BC3
	0	Colors correspond to BC1 mode 0. Two base alpha values, six
		intermediate alpha values derived by weightings of n/7.
	1	Colors correspond to BC1 mode 0. Two base alpha values, four
		intermediate alpha values derived by weighting of n/5, and
		two fixed alpha values of 0x00 (transparent) and 0xFF (opaque).

RGTC1 (BC4_UNORM)
	0	Two base red values, six intermediate red values derived by
		weightings of n/7.
	1	Two base red values, four intermediate red values derived by
		weighting of n/5, and two fixed red values of 0x00 and 0xFF.

RGTC2 (BC5_UNORM)
	The same modes as RGTC1, which apply to both the red and green
	components.

SIGNED_RGTC1 (BC4_SNORM)
	0	Two base red values, six intermediate red values derived by
		weightings of n/7.
	1	Two base red values, four intermediate red values derived by
		weighting of n/5, and two fixed red values with minimum and
		maximum values (-32768 and 32767).

SIGNED_RGTC2 (BC5_SNORM)
	The same modes as SIGNED_RGTC1, which apply to both the red and green
	components.

ETC1
	0	Individual mode, which defines two base colors with 4-bit
		color precision. Flip-bit is 0, which means the first base
		color applies to the left half of the pixel block and
		the second color to the right half.
	1	Individual mode with flip-bit of 1, which menas the first
		base color applies to the top half of the pixel block and
		the second color to the bottom half.
	2	Differential mode, which defines one base color with 5-bit
		color precision and one base color with 3-bit differential
		relative to the first base color components. Flip-bit is 0.
	3	Differential mode with flip-bit of 1.

